# School_District_Analysis
Module 4 Pandas the work will be completed using this repo.  
##  Module 4 Course Work
  Maria is a Chief Data Scientist for a city school district.  She is responsible for preparing all standardize test data for analysis, reporting and presentation.  This data will be used to provide insights into performance trends and patterns.  Our role is to assist Maria analyze data on student funding and student's standardized test scores.  We will be showcasing trends in school performance.  The school board and superintendent will use the information in making decisions on school budgets and priorities.  The data is highly confidential and must be protected.  
  We are fairly new team members, so we leaned heavily on Maria for assistance.  We installed Anaconda as our analysis will be conducted using Python and Jupyter Notebook.   
We started by creating a development or virtual environment and a clone of the GitHub repository to be consistent and to interact with the other team members.   
We converted the Excel file to a Pandas DataFrame.  Maria advised us that the team uses Jupyter Notebook for the analysis; therefore, we familarized with this tool.  The most helpful item we learned about was creating and using DataFrames in Jupyter Notebook.  Maria shared CSV format datasets that we imported and reviewed.  Anomalies were noted while reviewing the CSV files.  After starting our first notebook and importing the data files, we committed our work to GitHub via GitBash.  The learning never ends.  
  In Lesson 5, our job was to clean the data prior to performing any analysis.  We learned how to check for missing data, and were thrilled to find that our CSV files did not have any missing data.  Maria, being the thorough teacher, gave us a file that did have some missing so we could practice.  After practicing with the missing data files, we retuned to our school district analysis.  We checked that the data in each column was in the correct formate for us to conduct our analysis.  One major issue with the student dataset was that some names had professional prefixes and suffixes.  We knew this could not be correct as our dataset involed high school students.  It took several steps and differnt functions to remove the unwanted prefixes and suffixes, but the data looked great afterwards.  The two separate dataframes were merged as our analysis would involve gleaning information from the whole district.  
  In Lesson 7, we started consolidating information to assist with the analysis.  We needed to get the following information:  
  * total number of students
  * total number of schools
  * calculate the total budget for the district
  * average math scores
  * average reading scores
  * student passing math percentages
  * student passing reading percentages
  * student overall passing percentages

After gathering and calculating this information, we created a District Summary dataframe that would enable Maria to pass the information to the stakeholders.  It was important that the data within this dataframe be in the proper reporting formats.  This completed this portion of our analysis.  
'-----
In 4.11 we established spending ranges per student, categorized the spending bins, grouped the data by the spending ranges and created a new DataFrame for the scores by school spending.  Our original breakdown of the spending bins had to be adjusted as the schools were not fairly grouped.  I was surprised by the results of the analysis:  the schools with the smallest per student spending had the highest Average and Percent Passing Math and Reading Scores, and the highest overall percentage passing.  
In Lesson 12, we grouped the averages and percentages by school size as our client was curious if size had an impact on math and reading scores.  We created three bins, small, medium and large, for the school bins.  After created the three bins, we grouped the schools into the bins and added the results to our existing school summary.  Once again, we grouped the average math and reading scores, the average percentage passing math and reading, and the overall passing percentage based on school size.  The results of this analysis showed that attending a small to medium sized school produced higher scores and percentage.  The difference in overall percentage passing was shocking:  both small and medium size schools were 90% or better; the large schools dropped to 58%.  
For Lesson 13, we grouped the average passing scores and percentages in math and reading, and the overall percentage passing scores by school type.  Once again, insightful information.  It is beneficial to be a student in a charter school and the averages are higher.   
